Document pipeline deployments and deployers (#4017)
zenml-io/zenml: docs/book/how-to/deployment/deployment.md

---
description: Deploy pipelines as HTTP services for real-time execution
---

# Pipeline Deployment

Pipeline deployment allows you to run ZenML pipelines as long-running HTTP services for real-time execution, rather than traditional batch mode execution. This enables you to invoke pipelines through HTTP requests and receive immediate responses.

## What is a Pipeline Deployment?

> A pipeline deployment is a long-running HTTP server that wraps your pipeline in a web application, allowing it to be executed on-demand through HTTP requests. Unlike orchestrators that execute pipelines in batch mode, deployments create persistent services that can handle multiple concurrent pipeline executions.

Reviewer: Something like this maybe, @stefannica?

```suggestion
A pipeline deployment is a long-running HTTP server that wraps your pipeline for real-time, request-response interactions. While traditional (batch) pipeline execution (via orchestrators) is ideal for scheduled batch processing, data transformations, and offline training workflows, deployments are designed for scenarios where you need immediate responses - like serving predictions to a web app, processing user requests, or powering interactive AI agents. Deployments create persistent services that stay running and can handle multiple concurrent requests through HTTP endpoints.
```

> A pipeline deployment is a long-running HTTP server that wraps your pipeline in a web application, allowing it to be executed on-demand through HTTP requests. Unlike orchestrators that execute pipelines in batch mode, deployments create persistent services that can handle multiple concurrent pipeline executions.

Author: @strickvl this is fantastic, thank you !

- Providing connection information and management commands

{% hint style="info" %}
The **Deployer** and **Model Deployer** represent distinct stack components with slightly overlapping responsibilities. The **Deployer** component orchestrates the deployment of arbitrary pipelines as persistent HTTP services, while the **Model Deployer** component focuses exclusively on the deployment and management of ML models for real-time inference scenarios.

The **Deployer** component can easily accommodate ML model deployment through deploying ML inference pipelines. This approach provides enhanced flexibility for implementing custom business logic and preprocessing workflows around the deployed model artifacts. Conversely, specialized **Model Deployer** integrations may offer optimized deployment strategies, superior performance characteristics, and resource utilization efficiencies that exceed the capabilities of general-purpose pipeline deployments.

When deciding which component to use, consider the trade-offs between how much control you need over the deployment process and how much you want to offload to a particular integration specialized for ML model serving.
{% endhint %}

> With a **Deployer** stack component in your active stack, a pipeline or snapshot can be deployed using the ZenML CLI:

Author: I don't think I have to explain what a snapshot is here, same as I don't have to explain what a pipeline is. There needs to be a separate section on snapshots and this also needs to be covered in the introduction area.
